hey this is presto Walker this problem
from the Scottish national five maths
exam is getting a lot of attention
because students felt it was too
difficult Chris has an umbrella that is
85 centimeters long his locker is a
cuboid with the length forty centimeters
with 40 centimeters and height 70
centimeters can the umbrella fit inside
the locker diagonally between corners P
and M which are opposite corners of the
cuboid I should mention this problem is
recreated from a not yet released exam
so while this may not be the exact
wording I've done my best to recreate
the problem based on post to Twitter
Facebook and an article in the Scottish
Sun can you figure it out give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for a solution one
way to solve the problem is to use the
distance formula imagine setting up a
coordinate system the point P can be
placed at the origin 0 0 0 the point M
would then be at a coordinate of 40
negative 40 and 70 we can find the
distance of PM by using the distance
formula this becomes a square root of
the quantity 40 squared plus the
quantity negative 40 squared plus 70
squared this simplifies to be the square
root of 80 100 which equals 90
therefore the umbrella can fit because
the locker diagonal is 90 centimeters
which is larger than the umbrella which
is 85 centimeters another way to solve
this problem is to use the Pythagorean
theorem twice in the base square label
point n
opposite the corner of P this makes a
right triangle with two legs of 40 P n
is the hypotenuse of this right triangle
so we can calculate the length of P n as
the square root of 40 squared plus 40
squared which equals 40 times the square
root of 2 we can then draw a triangle p
n m and that's another right triangle
this has legs of 40 square root of 2 and
70 so P M is the hypotenuse of this
right triangle and we can calculate its
distance by taking the square root of
the quantity 40 times the square root of
2 squared plus 70 squared this again
simplifies to be the square root of 80
100 which is 90 so once again we've
calculated p.m. is 90 so once again we
could say the umbrella can fit since the
locker diagonal is 90 centimeters which
is larger than the umbrella which is 85
centimeters did you figure it out and do
you think it was too difficult thanks
for watching this video please subscribe
to my channel I make videos on math you
can catch me on my blog mind your
decisions if you like this video you can
check out my books which are listed in
the video description and you can
support me on patreon if you have a math
topic you could email me pres at mind
your decisions calm and you can catch me
on social media eyes are up mind your
decisions or a pressure tell Walker